She wrote some wonderful books.
Don't tell me she's important in how you live your life in America.
She isn't.
Louisa May Alcott.
And I love her as much as anybody else.
But to compare her to William Faulkner is insanity.
I think they have good father at the New York Public Library.
I know that people have offered them books
But you probably were making demands that everything be kept together as they are at Michigan.
Is that right?
Put the records, shall we be agreed?
Yes, he said, sure.
Then that's when she said we don't have any room.
That's the point.
They would love to have your books, as long as they could integrate them into the general collection.
These are second copies, and these are signed to me as opposed to second.
I took all the books, and then I wound up
One, two, three.
More folks.
I mean, second copy, third copy.
Here.
Some came out without signature sheets, because the signature sheets are not part of the book.
They're tipped in.
They're tipped in, yeah.
So, this is more rare.
This is more rare.
That's right, because it's an aberration.
More rare.
More scarce.
I think, because I think I'd still like to have cloth and signature.
Great American book.
Side down and backwards or something.
Something's transposed in here.
It's a mess.
It's the Day of the Locust Bank.
Daniel Liszt.
It's the great Hollywood novel.
Yeah.
Right.
Misfound copy.
Pages are bound between eight and nine.
Probably the only one like that.
You're still saving a few American books.
Have you seen this?
Not that copy of it.
They're putting these out for 30, 35 dollars.
These are the pseudo-first editions.
Yes.
And what's insanely great is that I found this for 50 cents, and all the dealers left it on the charity auction at the Association of University Women.
Think of this.
Fifteen of the Ann Arbor dealers
Left this sitting there.
For 50 cents.
You can't buy the paperback.
This alone is being advertised for $50.
Well, that's got the Robert Stone insurance.
Yeah.
Oh, my God.
They left it there.
So they're not too smart.
That's nice.
No, I don't have it.
Pretty interesting.
But the original one is another line.
There's a line here.
Mm-hmm.
And they didn't pick it up in the facsimile, and I don't know what that means.
Well, it's not an exact facsimile.
Yeah.
I showed it to Peter Howard.
It was very interesting.
He doesn't care for these things anyway, but he's wrong.
He's wrong.
You think so?
Yeah, because it's another printing.
It's another... It's another state, I guess.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And they're wonderful.
They're fresh, and it's sort of good.
That's Bosner, and that's the only one I have.
All right.
If you look at it, Bill Kinsella.
and you're looking at a guy who turns out his own newsletters.
That's in the back.
A living author who's so wrapped up with his collectors that he sends the collectors like a private newsletter.
K-A-N-S-E-L-L-A, Bill Kinsella.
The best living Canadian writer, writer of which became Field of Dreams.
Steve Daniels, W. Picassella, self-serving, one-size-fits-all, year-end letter, and environmental impact statement.
That's funny.
Reflectable now.
Self-serving.
Let me write down his address, David.
And brought him in and showed him what I do.
It triggered something.
Right in here?
Not here, but it was at the time.
His wife was with him.
His wife does this.
I mean, do you bring authors in?
Yes.
He was on a book and author luncheon, and afterwards we took him to dinner and brought him to our house.
Partially annotated.
You can't even find the first print.
I still got three of them.
Run by his wife to further the career.
Remember I told you about authors and love-hate relationships?
There are people like Bill Kinsella.
Love, love.
The other way around, yeah.
Very fascinating.
Trying to secure his place, participating in the process.
You're talking about a $450 book now.
There's only 100 of these.
This first book was hardcover and soft and only, only, only, only, only.
And this was small press stuff.
And you can't find any of these.
I bought them all.
I bought them all, all, all, all.
Everything I buy, everything, including
So, everything.
I collect him, everything.
You still collect him?
When you say you've divested yourself of contemporary writers, that's not exactly true then.
I divested myself of the American writers.
Here's Gunner Grass in translation and the post-war Germans.
Of course I didn't divest myself of him.
I'm telling you, I have some small collections there.
I brought back from him because he heard about it and didn't know what to do.
I brought back him
I met his translator and his critic in Moscow, and I brought him copies of his contributions in the Russian books that he didn't even know about.
His agent didn't even know about it.
Kinsella, who sent you a stained napkin with something that he wrote on it.
Unsolicited.
Don't you think this is a fellow who's taking himself a bit too seriously?
I accept him as he is.
His stories are only American Indian and baseball.
Seemingly the topics are slight, but he's really wonderful.
I'm trying to find his first story, but what's the difference?
That's okay.
I'd love to have a figure.
Here's Henry Roth, 90 years old, forgotten.
The trailer.
She knew.
Where did she know now?
Our house.
She's house.
And those who do the inspector.
It started in 1934.
Such that again.
What about the trailer in Albuquerque?
It was in the trailer in Albuquerque.
Probably the greatest single 20th century Jewish book.
A little after that, but basically exhausted.
Years later, it was designated one of the
on, what do they call it, unknown?
Yeah, and then had a second life in 1960.
Well, it was front page in the New York Times.
What is the function of a National Library?
To me, the failure is including our library funders, is the inability to show the people
Okay, let's go back.
Let's go back to the roots of your collecting.
We've covered quite thoroughly, I think, and the Faulkner.
But we're the only collector that subscribes to both P.W.
and A.B.
about that.
Why are you interested in books that are not published yet?
Well, I've got to start with the idea that once I saw P.W.
in my high school library, it opened up a whole world for me.
Because I was thinking of collecting some comics and books to so-called adult material.
It showed me more than what the publishing industry was.
It showed me that in the forecast page, I could actually know ahead of time what books were going to appear in the bookstores.
Talking about writers that I was interested in.
With Hawthorne, it still would be okay because there'd be some books on Hawthorne appearing in P.W.
expedient than that.
We were talking about living writers.
And there was a lot of them on the pages there.
Every issue has.
You said today in the car.
You are interested in collecting.
I wanted to collect me.
What did you mean by that?
I came from Russia in 1900 when we were six years old.
America.
And in 1948 when the State of Israel was created, this is the triangle.
I came from Russia.
I'm in America now.
It's possible that we may go to live in Israel someday.
At least we'll have.
I consider the people that are operating in Moscow today in publishing and in writing and in book selling, that I'm able to go there and communicate.
And the business that's here, who's in the room, it's me.
I never was interested in not being me.
Yeah, but I mean in terms of collecting authors.
You said the style of clock that he was alive.
That's me.
Two things.
Me chronologically.
It's me chronologically, but it's also me even closer than that if I can be with these people.
And I am with these people.
I'm not with Faulkner, but I was with his niece and his sister.
For years now, I know the sister-in-law and the niece.
And you went to his funeral.
I went to his funeral.
So it's me chronologically in America, but it's also me visiting Oxford, Mississippi and knowing the families.
That's me.
I'm in the picture.
You say, who's that?
That's Toby Holton.
Tell me about seeking writers out.
Tell me some of the situations, some of the experiences you have.
A photograph in the house of Tennessee Williams and yourself and your father.
I think they came in.
I forgot where it was.
I think it was Wayne State University.
And I was probably the only white person to bring a couple books for him to sign.
I remember that.
Chrissy Williams appeared in an antiquarian bookstore, and I sponsored an evening reception for him.
He was in Detroit.
Where did you make contact with him?
Somebody else made contact and arranged for him, and I picked him up.
Hello, Rome.
A little hungover.
probably on dope, and for some reason finishing dessert, even though I told him he shouldn't eat, put this stain all over his time.
So at that point it really struck me, you know, that I shouldn't want to know these people to the degree that... Maybe the writer is best known through the work.
I didn't realize he was an alcoholic, so bad, and a lonely person.
But I saw him that way.
So of course I learned.
Of course I learned.
I didn't know he was an alcoholic dope addict that couldn't function.
Among other vices.
That's how I learned, of course.
The writers, are they writing?
There's a problem for me because almost from the very beginning of my collecting, I was doing a lot of reading of critical matters.
I still am a person who will not go to a movie without reading maybe 80, never, never go to a movie without knowing almost everything through critics.
I respect critics.
I don't respect any one or two, but I take the whole body and then make my own decisions.
I never want to be surprised.
I never want to be entertained.
No.
I mean, this goes back to what we were talking about yesterday.
You don't go to see a Broadway production of Hamlet hoping, I mean amused, I mean entertained.
Going in, I don't.
If it happens, it happens.
I don't anticipate it.
Isn't there a spiritual limit?
I don't fear it.
I don't think about it.
You fear it done beautifully?
That doesn't entertain you?
I don't go to classical.
I go to my own time.
I stood up.
and saw, within one week, I saw Marlon Brando, the first week, Greek I Named Desire, and saw Lee J. Cobb's first week of talking about somebody who's a Syrian.
I don't care about them.
I care about them.
It just lays me out.
It's too late.
But I have some wonderful material which is gone now.
I was collecting Sam Shepard.
Nobody even knew who Sam Shepard was, and I was collecting it.
In 1979, I sold my American literature collection, with the exception of Daniel West and William Faulkner, to some of those books he still had.
Tell me a little bit about the decision.
Had you become bored with it?
Had you become bored with these writers?
two things happened almost at the same moment.
As usual, decisions are based on one fact alone.
Fact of elimination.
Fact one, I began to have interest in works and translations.
I had been working for six years on Israeli literature, working with and acquiring books of Soviet literature.
taking on the whole country, which meant that I couldn't possibly pay the attention.
On a nickel and diamonds, I decided to get rid of everything except the major major and the major minor.
The second factor was that I began in the same time, less interested in the writings that these writers were doing, and created in the new ones.
And that was the idea of these artificial rarities.
which made my collecting not only more expensive, but that I couldn't keep working, and more coming all the time.
And very high prices, which was $50, $60, which as you know now is low, but even in the 70s, especially the poetry.
Why did you succumb to the extra hilarious?
Because either I'm going to collect these people or I'm not.
Yeah, but you don't have to collect
I don't have to do anything, but that's my decision.
But we're talking about, I collect authors.
I don't buy the signed limited.
I do not admit them to my shelves.
I'm interested in the first trade.
I'm interested in what has gone out into the marketplace and affects people's lives.
But that's your decision.
That's why I don't even mind getting a first edition with a remainder stamp.
Your decision and your money.
My money is spent the way I want to spend my money.
We're talking money here.
So why collect something which you detested?
Why not continue to collect something which you enjoy?
I detested those items.
I didn't detest what was in them.
I didn't detest the quality of the material in the item.
I just detested the idea that these things were going to be in profusion.
That's the point.
They were schemes to make money.
Yeah.
And I decided to make a statement about it, and I'm not interested.
So would you say basically stop because of these things?
I just told you the reasons I stopped.
But that was a major reason.
First was I was going a new direction.
Second, I was disappointed with the idea that America lifted up with the idea that I'm going somewhere else for literature.
But there's also this factor, the economic factor.
In order to keep up, I was finding I wasn't buying $10 new books and $12.50 new books.
I was buying $100 new books.
And I didn't care for that.
There's a contradiction here, maybe not, but you said on the one hand you want to collect your own time.
On the other hand, the American writers stopped speaking to you.
The collection?
The fact that I was... Disregard the sign limiteds.
What about content?
Where were they failing you as writers?
Well, I think the literature was not as significant as starting in the major works.
If you put value situations on, I think you'll find that they all come out in the 40s, 50s, and 60s, and then they tail off.
If you grew up with finding, it resonates more.
That's possible.
I'm on several levels here, trying to respond to you.
Joel, interested primarily in literary material.
The obvious one that you're here to talk about, which is the collection.
But I'm on several levels besides being a collector.
To collect you don't have to be an intellectual, and to collect you don't have to be real, and we've talked about that.
You don't understand it, but it exists.
Talking about my decisions is why Bellow is a major novelist.
It's based on my collecting them, my investing in them, my knowing them, my this, my that, and then et cetera, et cetera.
It's based on a lot of factors.
It's also based on most of the leading critics will acknowledge that Saul Bellow is the single best novelist writing in America.
Not the single best author.
The novelist.
Which is a little different.
I've been telling my Israeli contacts and my Russian contacts a long time now that if you want to know what happened in America after World War II,
and especially in the 60s.
Essays of Norman Mailer and Jimmy Baldwin, and that's the best material that you could ever hope to read.
The Norman Mailer and Jimmy Baldwin will tell you what happened in the 60s, let's call it the 60s in America.
It's not fiction.
This is not short stories.
This is essays.
I knew that essays are part of literature, and that critical matter is ethics.
I collect it because of the authors being collected.
I can't say that I collect—well, I have—Sven Berkus put out two collections, and I have both of them.
I mean, does that mean I'm— Well, there's only two books, so you probably— Hey, we've authored one book.
The Jewish Publications Society a couple of years ago put together a collection from—put together an Italian guy.
I had an insanely hard-to-achieve collection of all of Henry Roth's periodical pieces.
They were printed in a collection.
Do you ever ask yourself what it's all about?
Do you consider yourself involved within the guidelines of each?
you know, quote, compassion, driving force?
It's all passion.
It's all concentration.
It's all paying attention.
Great lines in Arthur Miller's Jessica Salesman is when the wife says, attention must be paid.
I love it.
It reminds me that you really can't do a lot of attention paying in the world that we live in.
It's easy for me to have the book room and have this backyard.
A lot of people don't have that.
And my father and our kids don't live with us.
I'm interested in something.
I'm a halfway person.
And I'm not a compromiser at all.
I created all of my designs.
I didn't compromise with anybody.
I made some pretty hard-nosed decisions.
I'm keen to relate.
what I call the pieces of book culture, which I see as tragically understated and tragically misunderstood in America, or a little understood and no attention paid.
So as usual, in order to be fanatic about the whole thing, I have to be fanatic about the various parts.
In order to be fanatic about the various parts, it has to be aimed towards something stellar or something.
So I'm trying to talk about the idea that I'm a major fanatic of minor things as well as majors.
I can't stand the idea that my grandchildren, if I'm not careful, are going to be taught how to live in America and function in the society by going to symphonies and art institutes.
I can't be reoriented.
If they want to be a violin player, that's something else.
I still want them to get reading, writing, and arithmetic in school.
I'm not interested in ballet lessons in school.
I'm interested in reading, writing, and arithmetic.
And if they don't get it when they're six, seven, eight, it's going to be too late.
Because it's obvious.
I believe in adult education, by the way.
Adult education.
I think it's too late.
Now, somebody can learn a lot higher.
It's different.
But I really don't believe that he and I is adult education.
I think he and I is pathetic.
To me, because my father had printed matters, that's what passed it on to me.
And we had printed matter when our children were born.
And my daughter's child, single, beginning, and closing the loop, that's probably about the millions of American homes, forget about overseas, that have not one piece of printed matter in the home.
Forget about what?
They don't even have a paper.
I mean, think about it.
The publishers think about this, but they don't know what to do about it.
I think the educators think about this, but they don't know what to do about it.
I think I know what to do about it.
I really do.
I think we can take all the printed matter that we've got around, laying around in warehouses, and put it in these homes.
That's fanatic.
Yeah.
I worry about this.
The difference between sea mail and air mail is tremendous.
You're not even paying
$300 for a book, but I can't suppose to mail one.
I probably will ship it female in order that it all stays there, as opposed to dividing it up with their mail.
I haven't decided yet.
I was thinking of sending all the A authors.
I work with the anthology.
I was thinking of starting with Ewan Amitai and sending him first.
And the problems are deeper than that.
The actual shipping and putting up, to me, is almost nothing.
Don't worry about what's going to happen after it's up.
Authors have committed themselves to me that they'll help me merchandise and use.
What will be limited access?
It's not going to be a circulating library, right?
I'm talking about making appearances here, bringing people into the room.
See what all happens after they're there.
I'm talking about just to get them.
I probably will divide it up into publishing world, things like that, in other words, of the book society, for whatever that means, and then bouncing really interested in bringing people in to start talking in Moscow years ago.
We start with the love of the book, which becomes the use of the book, of the book.
saying that they understood.
The use of the book meant a certain study, and the fascinants were not allowed to study, so then the love of the book, and the love of the book doesn't mean it.
It's the use of the book that counts.
They had applause.
They had about 600 people, and they were going crazy.
On the platform, we're not too happy with the talk.
This is early, you know.
You said earlier that.
Now, would you say— No, it's what we utilize these collections again and again and again.
What bothers me is—
in the Faulkner room where you were yesterday.
How are we going to utilize it?
And I don't need a series of scattered events.
I'd rather have something like this going on.
You know what I mean?
I'd rather have a river than a waterfall.
What do they do?
What the Morgan does, all right?
What does Texas do?
Do they interdisciplinary their healing?
Or do they just reach out to whoever's interested in this research?
It's almost unheard of.
The university pay any attention to the collection of leading questions.
Yeah, I have to say, I think, yeah.
Which bottom line results in the, it being in?
The Humanities Research Center.
That's the name.
The opposite of research.
What is this?
And what?
Does it mean in the culture?
You see, the Texas Library, in fact, very printed books are almost irrelevant to what they have at the HRC.
You want another one?
We've got a whole thing for.
Is that a good Mexican beer?
I love it.
I probably will have another, but I'm not going to have it.
Is that a good Mexican beer?
It's wonderful, yeah.
And I don't know beer in a minute.
Surely knows that's a good one.
We've covered a lot, you know.
Let me just shut this up for a second.
We grew.
All right.
This is a good idea.
I've established that I'm not way off by saying there's two major themes of the future.
One is man and society.
And these are the Soviets.
I really believe there's a higher theme is the nature of good and evil in man.
This is not original with me, but a derivative of somebody, sometime, someplace.
I don't know if you've ever heard of it.
I've always thought that a novel whose theme, the nature of good and evil and rare, is standard than a novel man in society.
Partly because it's more individualistic.
And it isn't moaning.
And it flies high.
I prefer to think of Faulkner's theme.
Paul Bello, who I think is the best living American novelist, read it.
I try to operate under that and use that in my interactions in the publishing, selling, reading, educating, listing, utilization.
I try to think about that all the time.
And I try to be all of that myself.
In other words, as an individual, of course, I'm doing this all on my own.
as I'm entitled to, but I'm also, it's my burden.
Think of these two great themes, and I try to use them.
Because the man in society, you understand, I'm right up against the library society.
The library society is really not interested in what I'm doing, because it interferes a little bit in the way they see there.
The nature of good and evil in man is a real, well, they're both political.
But the nature of good is your major corridor.
The idea that a human being is composed of both is serious stuff.
This goes into censorship in the use of the books and what to do with them.
Reading is something that I think was.
You offered your books and profits to the public library, the air public library, and I'm sure they would have been thrilled to take them.
I didn't offer.
What I did was... You explored.
I went to them after I had offered them to Library of Congress.
They wanted the material that I subsequently sold.
They didn't want the material that I subsequently gave.
What material did you sell?
The rest.
The letters.
Well, why didn't you give them that?
Which does not research reach them.
Yeah, but the Library of Congress— I'm not interested in the scholars.
Let them go to Virginia.
They came to my house anyway and looked at my stuff years ago.
They're not coming to Michigan to look at the same stuff they saw in my house years ago.
Go to Washington.
You're not interested in the scholars.
They might not go anywhere to see my stuff.
Let's go back.
Why aren't you interested in the scholars?
Let's stay for tech.
I said, I'm not interested in the scholars coming to see the same material that they've seen right in.
I didn't say I'm not interested in the scholars, period.
Yeah, but the scholars is a big material.
Well, the scholars of the next generation haven't had an opportunity to see their material.
I didn't consider my material to be... They must have considered it enough because they wanted it.
I was working for them.
Did you...
Not for it.
For me.
Yeah, for money.
Yeah, but not the University of Michigan.
It was my decision.
It wasn't a monetary decision, because I don't think money.
I mean, if you sold the materials to Peter, I'm not concerned.
I'm very honest with you.
Found it housed.
I felt so good that some of this stuff went back into the marketplace.
both because of the value situation and some of the collectors would have it, and made interest in Faulkner and renewed interest with the booksellers and renewed interest.
I really had my guess.
Well, that's a good answer.
Possible that that, however, was the most valuable stuff in the collection?
Marble Fawn transcended a single script.
The total number of scripts transcended the Marble Fawn.
How many scripts did you have?
I think you sold most of it on block, which is why it got more money.
Who bought it?
You think L.D.
got it?
I don't know.
I don't want to know.
I forgot.
If you told me, I forgot.
And I don't think I asked.
I don't think you told me.
But I don't really care who gets things.
My fun is that it got back.
What I don't care about is who got it.
Well, you like to think that they went to a nice home, don't you think?
I don't care.
Well, what if it's some clown that's going to destroy it, or pangs of loss?
What I have, my father taught me years ago.
Don't worry about things you have.
You try to divest yourself of these things.
I didn't care what one.
You didn't even, never mind that.
It didn't hurt you when they, you didn't pine over their loss, so to speak.
I told you, I've never read books.
The machine wasn't running.
I never, never, never pine over or had him divest it.
Never.
There's nothing you said, ah, darn, I wish I had that back.
No.
Peter Howard said to me once, I'd do $400 for a book if I only wanted to pay on a paper slur, and that took a decision-making.
Along with what I said to you at breakfast, if I don't haggle, and I only got one option, leave it.
Well, the option to not buying it is leaving it.
So he calls it merciful.
Because he understands that my decision is based on decisions.
I want to pay it or I don't want to pay it.
And I don't care to discuss it.
Because I really don't know what I'm doing anyway.
But I know now you've got to make a decision.
Have you ever planned that?
He calls that merciless.
And he says, I'm known for that.
You never know why I don't buy it.
Never.
Why?
Because I'm unable to communicate that to them.
Because I really don't know myself why I don't buy it or not buy it.
Do you know why you don't want to buy an item?
Come on.
You can make it up.
What I'm saying is... You can verbalize it, but you don't know.
What if you desperately want the item, but you're saying, I won't get it because I don't want to pay that price?
Is that what you're saying?
The market decision that you have to make?
Yeah, but a lot of us will say, I know I shouldn't, but I will anyway.
I do, but then I've decided to buy it, and then why discuss it?
I don't discuss why I buy it, and I don't discuss why I don't buy it.
And that's called merciless.
You understand I cross the line.
I do from time to time, but I try not to.
And I'm known for that.
That's it.
Don't discuss it.
Toby wants to buy it or he doesn't want to buy it.
Have you ever... I'd rather spend my time talking about the material than the decision-making.
I hate it.
On a single item, I don't want to discuss it with you generally, how you make decisions.
Do you want to talk about how the collectors decide whether to buy or not, right?
And my answer to you is, who the hell knows?
It's an emotional experience.
We talked about that.
Did you ever feel, when you had those 350 offers that you were collecting, that you had to have everything they did, right?
I knew I couldn't.
Did you come close to success?
Did Phillips have everything in the wall?
So, did he?
Still didn't.
No.
So that's my answer to it.
It doesn't matter whether I want to or no one wants to.
Of course you want to.
And of course you know you can.
Because you never know about what it is that you haven't seen.
You don't know what exists that was put out seraphicially or private or pirated or derogged.
It's an ongoing event anyway.
It's life.
This is a life function.
It's not a death function.
You're a very rational man.
I know, very.
I thought you were collecting, but this is an irrational passion.
The collecting of books.
Do you agree with that?
No, because it's not the collecting of books.
Any collecting is rational.
Looking towards immortality.
We've talked about that.
It's artifacts that supposedly will make you immortal, that you leave design and make you immortal.
It's artifacts.
This is partly the reason why you insist that the books that you do give together as
The only reason why I insist on it, because I see that as what I have in my own house.
If I see that's what I have in my own house, and that's what I want to turn it over, I would say that's the only reason.
The idea that it's comprehensive is rationalizing.
The only reason, then, is immortality.
Lee Holtzman, even though you say you don't want your name on it, that's kind of contradictory in a way.
You don't want your name on it on the one hand, but yet you want it to...
remain under the terms that you developed it.
I mean, this is Toby Holtzman's conception of the William Schwarzenegger archive.
And if you don't agree to keep it... Lubrotsky came to the same conclusion.
Lubrotsky says it's going to be kept together.
Or it doesn't go to Yale.
Or it doesn't go anywhere.
And it went to Cape Girardeau down in... He'll have two people a year visit him.
I'll have more people visit me than he...
I mean, there's also money involved with him, too.
Yeah, he's the curator.
Lifetime curator, too.
Yeah, and he wouldn't even curate with me.
He wouldn't even curate with my curator.
What do you think that is?
What's he doing all day long?
Sleeping?
He's writing poetry.
He said to me one day in Oxford, hold mine under his, and he'll make a good deal for me.
Offering you money?
Based on how much material I had versus how much material he had.
It would be called the L.D.
Brodsky Collection.
Whatever.
But Toby Holtzman wouldn't be part of that.
So what?
Either way, what's in it?
I don't like the idea of South-East Preservation.
I'm not sure.
I've been down there.
I've been down there last year.
It's a staple.
He's not in his own building.
He told me he was going to be in his own building.
He does have a room.
Bigger than my room in Michigan?
I don't have the whole room, but bigger than that room?
No, smaller, but he basically has the whole room that he's in.
Oh, sad.
Basically.
First he does.
Well, I'm trying to think of it because I took some pictures.
He doesn't share it with anything.
Well, it was somebody else's office.
It was somebody else's room, and then it was the president's room, and then it became his room.
Same argument I have in Israel.
I wanted an adjacent little office, which they decided has two doors.
Of course, they locked my side and opened the other side, and I said, do it the other way, walking through somebody they're working.
Now, is this thing all set your Israeli thing, or are there still some place to be dotted and some T's to be crossed?
Well, is the International Conference set?
I would say, in principle, that's the word they use.
Israelis say, in principle, we want to be there.
I want any PLO.
Why should they?
And they'd be from Tunis.
People who live in West Bangla, guys.
And what's your reaction to that?
That's what they're going to get.
So you're going to pull the PLO stuff out.
What?
So you are going to pull the PLO stuff out.
I'm talking about their stand on this piece.
I'm not talking about collection.
I'm sorry.
Well, that's what it sounded like.
No, I'm talking about their stand.
And I respect that because... I thought you were talking about the books.
No, I'm sorry.
No, no, no, no, no.
I'm talking about their stand, and I'm relating that to the word in principle.
You asked me, in principle, am I all set?
Or I said, in principle, I'm all set.
But I don't have any contract.
I'm afraid to put it down in writing.
I want them to present it to me, and then I'll approve it and change it.
That's what I did in Michigan.
You know the book?
I'm the seller and you're the buyer.
And here's the book, and neither one of us know what we're doing.
and you say how much you want for it, and I say, well, how much you're giving me for it?
You want the other one to talk first?
So what we're doing is negotiating.
Yeah, so what I'm doing is, and I say we're successful at Michigan, and do the same thing there.
I let the university put on one or two pages what it is that they want me to sign.
Meaning, what are they going to do, and what are they going to fix?
Basically, as a form of a
What do they call it?
A codicil or a... I don't know what that even is called.
Legally.
I don't know.
It don't amount to raw beans.
Forget it.
You know what I mean?
Then I die and the paper's worthless anyway.
Because it was done for me.
It wasn't done for my ears.
Right?
I don't know if I can put on there.
Well, you'd be hopeful that the writers who have become a part of this will work to... Well, my problem is that I don't think I can get it down on paper.
So my idea is that I can't put what I want on paper.
So what I did was, I left the University of Michigan and it came out pretty good.
How strong are Michigan Special Collections in other areas?
Greatest.
In America.
Papyri.
I don't know it.
This is before printed Gutenberg.
Oh, papyri.
I call it Papyri.
P-A-P-Y-R-I.
Okay.
Who gave it up?
Somebody at the university accepted it.
That's good stuff.
We're talking about, with the exception of that being listed in their brochures and in their promotional material, nobody knows about it.
Probably the Papyri people do.
If you ask me, what are they?
It's pretty neat.
You're pretty elegant.
You're about pre-Gutenberg.
You're way pre-Gutenberg.
You're about classic.
You're talking about 2,500-year-old stuff.
I don't want to be quoted.
But Tom Garich, who's the head of Special Collections at the University of St.
Paul Faulkner, you know, and I've been operating on him for years.
And I had him up as my guest for the dedication day.
We spoke with the money.
a bunch of papers that they found under the stairs at Rauno.
They called the Faulkner Papers, with poems and bracelets.
Who got that, Texas?
Mississippi.
They went and sold a papyri.
Oh, yeah, listen.
They went and sold a papyri collection to get the money to buy the Faulkner.
You follow me now?
Yes.
And then it's the same.
Deaccessioning.
I have.
What do you think of that?
I don't think about it at all.